---
created: 2023-05-29T23:46
updated: 2024-12-30T17:12
---

Hello!
This is Melody, you can also call my Chinese name "Yan Er" Glad to hear from you!
The last few days are mostly rainy or cloudy, and I don't go out much, so I rarely see the sun, and I prefer rainy or windy cloudy days. Walking on the path, dripping rain, blowing wind in the park, let me feel relaxed and comfortable, <span style="background:#40a9ff">but in winter, there will be more yearning for the sun, perhaps because people will tend to favor or need things.</span>
On the other hand, reading your letters, you seem like a philosopher who thinks about things in different ways

---

This is Melody, you can also call my Chinese name "Yan'er" Glad to hear from you!
It's mostly rainy or cloudy these days, and I haven't gone out much, so I rarely see the sun. I also prefer rainy or windy cloudy days, walking on the paths, getting rainy, blowing the wind in the park, making me feel relaxed and comfortable. However, <span style="background:#40a9ff">in winter, there is indeed a greater yearning for the sun, </span>perhaps because people tend to something that is beneficial or needed, whether it is people or things
Then again, reading your letters, I think you're a philosopher and think differently, which I rarely think. But many times I do something will consider whether it is worth it, will consider what doing this thing will bring me, <span style="background:#ff4d4f">the experience in recent years </span>has made me start to pay more attention to what I can get, let me from a very emotional, sensitive personality to become more rational, I think it's quite good, let me learn to love myself first and then love others.
Wish you a happy summer!
Melody
2023.05.29

---

Hello!
This is Melody, you can also call my Chinese name "Yan er". I am glad to hear from you!
It's raining or cloudy in recent days, and I haven't gone out much, so I rarely see the sun. I also prefer rainy or windy cloudy days, walking on the path, drenching in the rain, blowing in the park, let me feel relaxed and comfortable. <span style="background:#40a9ff">But in winter, you do have more yearning for the sun, </span>perhaps because people tend to have something that is good for them or what they need, whether it's a person or something.
Then again, looking at your letter thinks you look like a philosopher and think about things in different ways, but I seldom think that way. But a lot of times I do a thing will consider whether it is worth it, will consider what will bring me to do it, <span style="background:#ff4d4f">in recent years,</span> I began to pay more attention to what I can get, let me from a very sensitive, sensitive character to become more rational, I think it is good, let me learn to love myself before loving others.
May the summer be good!
Merodi.
2023.05.29

---

Hello!
This is Melody, you can also call my Chinese name "颜儿". Glad to hear from you!
The last few days are mostly rainy or cloudy, and I don't go out much,so I rarely see the sun. I also prefer rainy days or windy cloudy days.walking on the path, drenching in the rain, blowing the wind in the park, making me feel relaxed and comfortable.However, in winter, there is indeed a greater yearning for the sun, perhaps because people tend to have something that is good for them or what they need.
Then again, reading your letters, you seem like a philosopher who thinks about things in different ways. Many times I do something will consider whether it is worth it, will consider what will bring me to do it.
The experience in recent years has made me start to pay more attention to what I can get, let me from a very emotional, sensitive personality to become more rational,I think it's quite good, let me learn to love myself first and then love others.
My English is not very good, so the expression will be inaccurate, please forgive me.Wish you a happy summer!
Melody
2023.05.29